Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 
ISO 19005-1:2005 (PDF/A-1) 
 
necessary in order to attain stable and secure long-term preservation. The Swedish 
National Archive's policy is to refer primarily to international recognized 
standards, secondly to other standards (Swedish standards etc.) and finally to 
specific regulations prepared by the Swedish National Archive. PDF/A-1 enables 
preservation of certain types of documents in their original form. PDF/A-1 is not 
primarily to be used as a format for producing or editing documents, but as a 
format in which to establish documents. One of the main criteria when prescribing 
about document formats is independency from specific hardware and/or software. 
 
Who are some of the vendors that report PDF/A-1 support? 
Adobe Systems Inc. ? www.adobe.com 
Apago ? www.apagoinc.com 
Visioneer ? www.visioneer.com 
Callas - www.callassoftware.com 
Compart Systemhaus GmbH ? www.compart.net 
PDF Tools AG ? www.pdf-tools.com 
 
Why does the standards development process take so long? 
Developing a standard according to National Standards bodies and ISO policies ensure 
that the process is an open and consensus driven process. Several participants with 
expertise in the area come together to contribute to development of the standard. 
In order to ensure that there is ample opportunity for all interested parties to provide input 
and express opinions there is a very formal balloting process determined by the standards 
organization.   
 
How did PDF/A get started and who is involved? 
The PDF/A activity was initiated in the United States through the joint sponsorship of 
AIIM, Association for Information and Image Management and NPES, The Association 
for Suppliers of Printing, Publishing, and Converting Technologies. Under the auspices 
of TC-171 Document Management Application ns Subcommittee 2 Application Issues, a 
Joint Working Group (WG5) was formed with representatives from ISO Technical 
Committees 42, 46, 130, and 171. A diverse group of librarians, archivists, PDF software 
developers, government agencies, imaging experts, graphics experts and others 
collaborated to develop PDF/A. Initial meetings were held in mid-2002 and the standard 
was approved in June 2005. Technical experts from 15 national standards bodies 
provided input throughout the development process.   
 
Currently actively involved organizations are: AIIM, NPES, Adobe, Appligent, Callas, 
EMC/Documentum, Global Graphics, Harvard University, Merck & Co., Inc.,   
PDF Sages, the Administrative Office of the US Courts, the Internal Revenue Service and 
the National Archives and Records Administration. 
 
Countries currently involved in this ISO activity include: Australia, China, Germany, 
France, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States and 
Sweden. 
July 10, 2006 Page 7 
