Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 
ISO 19005-1:2005 (PDF/A-1) 
 
What is PDF/A? 
ISO 19005-1, Document management ? Electronic document file format for long-term 
preservation ? Part 1: Use of PDF 1.4 (PDF/A-1) is the first in a new family of ISO 
Standards to address the growing need to maintain information in electronic documents 
over archival time spans. 
 
Because this initial version of PDF/A is based on PDF 1.4, the standard is being 
published in parts so that new parts can be added without obsolescing previous parts. For 
example: PDF/A-1 refers to the format defined by Part 1 (ISO 19005-1) of the standard 
(or PDF 1.4) while Part 2 (ISO 19005-2) and later parts may be based on a later version 
of PDF and/or may define archiving requirements for more complex content types. 
 
Why PDF/A? 
The feature-rich nature of PDF can create difficulties in preserving information over the 
long-term, and some useful features of the PDF file format are incompatible with the 
demands of long-term preservation. For example, PDF documents are not necessarily 
self-contained, drawing on system fonts and other content stored external to the original 
file. As time passes, and especially as technology changes, these external connections can 
be broken, and the dependencies cause information to be lost. Additionally, because of 
the lack of standardization among the many PDF development tools on the market, there 
is inconsistency in the implementation of the file format. This lack of standardization 
could be chaotic for the information managers of the future, especially as  
it would be difficult (if not impossible) for them to ?get under the hood? of the PDF files 
unless a format specification were put in place that specifically addressed long-term 
preservation needs. 
 
Tremendous quantities of valuable information are currently be created and saved all over 
the world as PDF, and a specification solution is needed to ensure that digital PDF 
documents remain readable, renderable and accessible for the long-term. PDF/A is 
designed to be that specification. 
 
What is the difference between PDF and PDF/A? 
The PDF/A-1 (ISO 19005-1:2005) standard is based on Adobe?s PDF Reference 1.4, and 
specifies how to use a subset of PDF components to develop software that creates, 
renders and otherwise process a flavor of PDF that is more suitable for archival 
preservation than traditional PDF. PDF/A-1 aims to preserve the static visual appearance 
of electronic documents over time and also aims to support future access and future 
migration needs by providing frameworks for: 1) embedding metadata about electronic 
documents, and 2) defining the logical structure and semantic properties of electronic 
documents. The result is a file format, based on PDF 1.4 that is more suitable for long 
term preservation. PDF/A-1 files will be more self-contained, self-describing and more 
device-independent than traditional PDF 1.4 files. 
 
July 10, 2006 Page 2 
