Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 
ISO 19005-1:2005 (PDF/A-1) 
 
How does PDF/A-1 address these long-term preservation needs? 
 
Device Independent. PDF/A-1 requires device independent components so that the static 
visual appearance can be reliably and consistently rendered and printed without regard to 
the hardware or software platform used. The graphics clause, for example, incorporates 
requirements to ensure predictable color rendering. PDF/A-1 also prohibits the use of 
components not defined in PDF Reference 1.4. 
 
Self-Contained. Everything that is necessary to render or print a PDF/A-1 file must be 
contained within the file. The fonts clause requires that all fonts used for rendering 
content are embedded in the file. A PDF/A-1 conforming writer must always embed 
fonts, and a conforming reader must always use the embedded fonts. This means that the 
file will be rendered using the fonts intended and not using fonts residing on the local 
workstation.   
 
Self-Documenting. PDF/A-1 requires Adobe Extensible Metadata Platform (XMP) be 
used for embedding metadata in PDF files. To allow flexibility of implementation, 
PDF/A-1 provides recommendations for documenting file attributes such as: File 
identifier, File provenance, Font metadata, and allows non-XMP schemas to be included, 
as long as they are embedded. Implementers can use XMP in a variety of ways to include 
information about electronic records within the file itself. Having metadata embedded in 
the file can increase the informational value of electronic documents and enhance the 
future researcher?s understanding of the document. 
 
Unfettered. PDF/A-1 prohibits encryption. This prohibition means that User IDs and/or 
Passwords are not needed to do anything with a PDF/A-1 file.  PDF/A-1 files are open 
and available to anyone or any software that processes the file. Implementers that require 
access controls can provide these access controls outside of the file format. 
 
Available. PDF/A-1 is based on an authoritative specification that is publicly available. 
Anyone can use the PDF Reference and XMP Specification in conjunction with PDF/A-1 
to create applications that read, write, or process PDF/A-1 files. Adobe has granted a 
general royalty free license to use certain of its patents to create applications that process 
PDF/A-1 files. Additionally, Adobe has granted AIIM and NPES the rights to publish 
these specifications on their respective Internet sites into the indefinite future. 
 
Adoption. PDF/A-1 was designed for flexibility of implementation to promote its wide 
adoption. If widely adopted, PDF/A software tools will proliferate, and the market will 
support the file format as long as the demand exists. Market support of PDF/A will help 
ensure the viability of PDF/A and extend the length of time that PDF documents can be 
maintained as PDF/A. 
July 10, 2006 Page 4 
